---
layout: page
title: Selling For Big Money in a Communist Country
---

## The fundamentals always apply

Over the course of 20 years running an adult advertising agency, I met a few escorts who grew up behind The Iron Curtain. But none ever told me about what it was like to live and be an escort in a Communist regime until I began selling ads to a German girl who opened up and gave me an eye-opening view of East German escort life before the wall came down.

---
Whatever the political system and the dogma attached, you can always count on the existence of a privileged class — and an abused class. Andrea was born into that privileged class. Daddy was a military man — mama a schoolteacher — and both members of The Communist Party.

As a child of the elite, she was subjected to piano lessons, swimming classes, and team competition, none of which she would have chosen given the opportunity to say no. To say her youth was strict and regimented would be an understatement. The woman was left-handed and her elementary school teachers forced her to write with her right.

Andrea was (and I assume still is) a sensational blonde that men found irresistible when she grew up. She made a fortune as an East German sex worker, a profession she stumbled upon at the age of 20.

Andrea had a boyfriend who was a singer in a band. The combo had a prestigious engagement at a fancy hotel where it just so happened that West German politicians were attending their annual convention. And while her boyfriend sang and she sat in the audience watching, several of those West German men approached her asking if 500 marks was adequate for an hour of her time.

When she told her boyfriend what had happened, he vowed never to bring her to a place like that again. But where he saw indiscretion, Andrea saw opportunity. And sure enough, she circled back the next night alone and ready to cash in. In a figurative blink of an eye, a man coughed up 500 West German (they were worth much more than the East German variety) marks for what turned out to be five minutes of her time.

---

Communism is a political system that does not reward people for their hard work and industry. In theory, everybody shares the wealth and the fruits of his and his neighbor’s hard labor. But that’s simply not an ethos that works in the real world.

Hence, the black market, a place where hard-working proletarians could reap the benefits of their labor. Without that black market, the West German marks her first customer gave her were worthless. But with it, they were extremely valuable. And Andrea’s 500 West German marks netted her 5000 East German marks in trade.


Those 5000 East German Marks were sufficient to purchase over four years rent in a one-bedroom apartment and health coverage for equal duration in exchange for what turned out to be 5 minutes of her time.

Some women couldn’t do what Andrea had done for any amount of money! But though not necessarily of the escort mentality, all that cash was just too seductive. Andrea was off and running in her newfound profession.

Residing in a Communist state, banking illegal cash was even riskier than in the United States. And so, Andrea had to spend the money as rapidly as she earned it. That meant expensive black market clothing and trips to live it up in super fancy hotels in Budapest and Prague. Just so she stayed behind The Iron Curtain, East Germans were allowed to travel.

---

As a person who grew up during The Cold War fearing annihilation at the hands of The Russians, I find these primary source insights into Communist society fascinating. I always figured that behind all the stiffness The Red Machine portrayed, the fundamentals still applied when it came to men’s libidos and the price they’d pay to satisfy that urge with an exceptionally attractive woman.
Political system notwithstanding, that’s one reality of the human condition that cannot be controlled. Communism was no exception. Clearly, a sexy girl could really make out financially in a Communist regime.

In fact, Andrea waxed nostalgic as she recounted her days working before the wall came down and actually expressed a view that her life was better in East Germany — and couldn’t understand why anybody would want to “tear down that wall.” Sometimes escorts are the most egocentric, clueless, and selfish people you’d never want to meet. And Andrea was certainly one of them — physical appeal notwithstanding.

Once the two Germanys united and there was no more black market for West German marks, Andrea’s compensation settled more within plausible parameters. Yes, she still made a lot of money at home and while traveling to Cannes during film festival times. But the girl didn’t feel as attached to East Germany as she once did.

One day, a friend suggested that they fly to New York to go shopping. Clothing was relatively cheap and of very high quality in the Big Apple.

Andrea came to New York and signed on with an escort agency that was running their advertising through me. She was given star billing (advertised as a Danish porn star) and immediately began earning a lot of money.


The woman fell in love with New York and its rich men and stayed for 15 years. Eventually, she left the agency, went independent, and asked a friend with which advertising agency she could arrange her ads. And that’s how I met Andrea. I was the recommendation.

In my two-decade career selling adult advertising, I can’t say I met a lot of interesting people. And Andrea certainly did not stand out as the exception. The woman was nowhere near as interesting as she was attractive. Still, I found the story of her journey into the profession while living in an authoritarian regime fascinating.
